---
layout: post
read_time: true
show_date: true
title: "[CV] Johan Lassen"
date: 2024-10-20
img: posts/20241020/colors.png
tags: [CV, Bioinformatics, Machine Learning, Data Science, Python, R, Deep Learning]
category: Professional Profile
author: Johan Lassen
description: "My CV as a Bioinformatics PhD student at Aarhus University"
---


### Data scientist
E: johanlassen@live.dk | M: +45 60563035 | Aarhus, Denmark | [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/johanklassen/)

I am finishing my Bioinformatics PhD in Dec. 2024, and I currently work with 
antibiotics resistance prediction using end-to-end deep learning on clinical data. Machine learning has been 
the focal point of my work, mostly applied in practice. Great motivators include working in cross-functional 
teams, running/closing well scoped projects, and learning new technologies that streamline my AI workflows. 
Finally, I have learned numerous programming languages/modules/tools during my PhD; while the overlap 
with the industry is not excessive, I have the skills to quickly get proficient in e.g., Azure/AWS, SQL, and 
Docker. 

Here are a few of my skills: 

| Skill | Details |
| --- | --- |
| Python | PyTorch, Lightning, Wandb, Numpy, Pandas, Seaborn, Scikit-learn, etc. |
| R | ggplot2, tidyverse stack, Shiny, caret, etc. |
| Machine Learning | Linear Models, Gradient boosting, PCA, UMAP, CNNs, Transformers, Autoencoders, etc. |
| Workflow management | Snakemake, GWF, High Performance Computing |
| Other tools | Bash, Git, Linux |
| Non-technical skills | Science communication, Visualization, Competitive |


## PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
### PhD Student, Bioinformatics Research Centre, Aarhus University
2020 – present

Roles
-	Execute and manage projects in cross-functional teams across departments.
-	Recruit and supervise master students for projects and thesis projects.
-	Foster international scientific collaborations with France and UK.
-	Participating in top-tier courses, e.g., Nordic Probabilistic AI Summer School.


PhD Projects (see [google scholar](https://scholar.google.dk/citations?user=ZJfhNbsAAAAJ&hl=da&oi=ao)):
-	Machine learning optimization of data deconvolution methods in mass spectrometry
-	Neural networks regression of years since birth. Raw data: 7 TB.
-	1D CNNs for diagnosis of antibiotic resistance (100k samples)
-	Predicting osteoporosis using longitudinal time series data

### Assistant Teacher, Bioinformatics Research Centre, Aarhus University
2019 - 2023
-	Applied Programming in Bioinformatics (Bsc level).
    * Algorithms and Data Structures in python.
-	Genome Analysis and Statistics (Bsc level).
    * R programming, ggplot2, and tidyverse stack.
    * Statistics and hypothesis testing.
-	Statistical Machine Learning in Bioinformatics (Msc level).
    * Gradient Boosting, UMAP, Random Forest, Lasso, etc.
-	Data Science in Bioinformatics (Msc level).
    * R programming and statistical testing.

## EDUCATION
- 2020 - present

    * PhD Student in Bioinformatics (BiRC, Aarhus University)
- 2019 - 2020
    * Master of Science in Bioinformatics (BiRC, Aarhus University)
- 2016 - 2019
    * Bachelor of Science in Molecular Medicine (BiRC, Aarhus University)
